This folio illustration from 1604 accompanies the tale of the young prince Kay Khusrau from
the persian epic, the Shahnama. When we combine this folio with its accompanying tale,
we come to gain an in depth knowledge of the story. This image is made
to come alive through the artist's use of character depiction, and their clever positioning within
the space. It is aspects such as these that aid in giving this folio its
multifaceted and dynamic feel. Here we will be focusing on the three characters located at
the forefront of this image, as they attempt to escape those located to the rear
of the image. The three main characters can be located on horseback and are
in the midst of traveling to Iran. It was prophesied that a warrior by the name
of Giv, would locate the the young prince Khusrow, and escort him back to Iran
a to the vacant throne. We are witnessing a crucial river crossing, one that will take
the group out of the reach of those pursuing them. The throne of Iran has
recently been vacated, and although Khusrow has been prophesied as the next Shah, there are
others, who believe their claims validity. Those we see in the images background have
been sent by one such challenger, with the mission of stopping this caravan of
three before they cross this river. We can locate Giv thanks to his description in
the narrative. Described as a “noble warrior,” and a “Veteran of toil,” we know he is
a man of combat. He is dressed in in clothing that indicates his status,
forearm bracers, arrows, and other armour. He has spent many dangerous years searching throughout
the islamic world for the young prince, and is keen to see this journey through
to its completion. As we pan across we come to the prince’s mother, Farangis, who
can be identified thanks to this passage from the text, “Whilst Farangis assumed the helmet.”
The central of our three figures is not only female, but also appears to be
wearing the aforementioned helmet. She has joined her son and Giv on their journey
to Iran, after having bestowed upon them armour and jewels previously hidden in her palace.
The two are both focusing on those whom advance upon them, showing their concern, as
well as perhaps inferring their roles as “protectors” of Khusrow.” Finally we come Kay Khosrow
himself, the young prince who has been prophesied to become the leader of Iran, and
by extension, the Persian empire. Our main character can be identified thanks to both his
dress and his horse. He is outfitted in the rich and kingly clothing, and sat
astride his famous horse. A black steed so fast it is able to “blast out
of sight.”  The prince and those accompanying him run into some issues when the man
charged with ferrying travelers across the river refuses to comply. It is for this reason
that they decide to take fate into their own hands, and cross the river on
horseback. Here we can see that Khusrow is more concerned with getting across the
river and into what will become his kingdom, providing charity to a peasant and
facing in the direction of their travel. This is in direct contrast to his
mother and Giv, who as we previously noted are more concerned with those in
the distance. Khusrow, Giv, and Farangis do make it to Iran and the young prince
goes on to fulfil the prophecy, claiming the becoming one of Iran’s greatest rulers.”